[Applause]
for which it stands one nation under God
indivisible with literacy and justice
for all it's one of our characters
I don't know okay
I'll make a merchant to approve the
agenda okay if that would help I second
that I have a motion Hall to accept the
agenda and I have a second from uh by
Sir Brown all those in favor say aye aye
the agendas
sorry
I made the movement
I made the motion and vice chair Susan
secondary
recess for five minutes I jumped the gun
s
I'm sorry what was that
testing testing
[Music]
which is
nice
oh
yeah
foreign
that's really good
and we could go back to the video
I would recommend going back to the
community
Ron can you go back to the video and see
if the three day was actually at the end
was actually motioned a personal cycle
we don't have any emotions
and approved
we did
when I made a motion it was for the
entire contract with the exception of
the spousal piece with ice cream no it
was for the addendum they were brought
to the table one at a time
that we would
the only thing is Ron's looking it up to
see how it was done we rescinded all of
it and then it was brought back one at a
time but it was not
um
it was a testing witnessing
the clerk's job is just to attest that
it was signed
oh I will be going home
thank you
[Music]
I'm sorry what was that
um
thank you
let's see did you want this water
okay
so the word products commissions our
Forest Products
we're trying
to play them here
it's frustration
it's actually still further down
that's right
so if I made a motion it was a two-year
contest of three
so the three-year contract was not
motioned at three days sorry three days
cried on that
one okay
[Music]
and you can't adjust your agenda though
so
the two-year we were discussing the
two-year not the one year
and the
the other contract
assumed was implied with that
they've raised issues with it
included it's a separate contract Mr
chairman yes I would just suggest that
according to Robert's full of water you
have the provision that you have the
prerogatives chairs to interpret a
motion in any way that you'd like and if
that's your interpretation that can be
held but we made I'm sorry to interrupt
but we rescinded and all three of them
were supposed to be separate motions
Mr chairman again if if it was the
understanding of the chair the motion
that was made was to include all
agreements then that if that was the
ruling of the chair then that could be
the rule of the chair but that wasn't
the agreement that wasn't what the
intent was of the um of having them
rescind and start one two one two three
okay I can actually speak for myself and
when I made that motion that's correct
it was inclusive of all of the
agreements with the exception of the eye
crimp and for the spouse
but it was two separate motions and
there should have been three
years
as as Mr Durst stated that that was in
intent of the charge
all right
it's a fairly manually please
point of order
okay we approved the agenda
and Susan for the second on the agenda
vote okay all those in favor of uh
approving the agenda please say aye aye
okay first action item is budget
presentation
your mic
sorry
you can do it I think
2023-2024 budget proposal was created
collaboratively by the district
administrators department and supportive
trustees and Alignment to The Five-Year
strategic
The Five-Year strategic plan adopted in
February of 2023 is the district's
business plan with over 15 board
meetings and the duration of less than
five months with the objective to Tara
Park the budget while simultaneously
creating the budget much work has been
done this budget proposal reflects the
outcomes of the district's leaders
shared decision-making processes and
priorities while adhering to Current
financial constraints and funding
parameters
the summary of the
2023-2024 budget proposal is outlined by
identifying notable factors in revenue
and expenditures qualifying conclusions
respectfully I asked about the board of
trustee School questions for the end of
the presentation and anticipated in an
intimidation of potential questions I
have tailored the content of the
prepared applications that include
public the answer and the success
questions
thank you
congratulence District funding is
Reliant upon three Revenue sources State
local and Federal
state revenue during the 2012
legislative session and historic
investment was appropriated to K-12
schools and approximate 15.4 increase
for public engagement called education
was approved by lawmakers which includes
additional funding for teacher pay
benefits classified account pay
discretionary funding and one-time
federal funds this appropriation will be
distributed to schools according to the
funding model based upon support units
the majority of state revenue funding is
generated by support unit in 2020
through 2021 2021 through 2022 and
2022-2023 support units were calculated
using average daily attendance based
upon full-time equivalent enrollment or
FTE
FTE will not be used to calculating
support units for this coming fiscal
year
support users for the
2023-2024 school year will be populated
using average daily attendance for Ada
on instructional feed time and more
simplistic terms instead of receiving
funding by enrollment this coming year
will be attended
the West Palmer County School District
estimated
2023-2024 school year fall enrollment to
be 1105 students based upon historical
Trends attendance Trends the estimated
average student attendance percentage
for the
2023-2024 year is 93.8 sorry
93.88 for the midterm reporting period
and 93 for the best 28 weeks upon
calculating protection and applying the
coverage to the support unit based upon
the factors listed above the 28-week
support units are expected to be
58.56 for comparison and perspective the
2017 school year support
E7
similarly to most districts the westmor
county school district will fall into
protective status upper business or
funding formula therefore in fiscal year
2024 West Summit County School District
will be a total estimated State support
for mnl revenue of 8 million 538
643 dollars with the addition of special
distributions the West Water County
school district has a budget proposal of
9 million forty four thousand seven
hundred and nineteen dollars
equating to almost a 10 increase in
state
Hospital excuse me first said can I move
that up and make it bigger for me
because I think if I can see it
I'm trying to figure out where you hit
it but I'm just thinking I know people
want to see it and you're giving numbers
and being able at the top or it says
plus right here
yeah
so if you just scroll up and look up
guys down the screen oh just on the
screen
and you want it just bigger I think it
would have been better
another three dollars
is that a little better than people yeah
thank you
somebody can have mine I don't I have it
on the computer hold up
now
okay
supplemental levies used for
instructional expenditures Capital
purchases co-curricular extracurricular
activity and this great thanks in the
2021-2022 festival here at the district
supplemental property tax money provided
revenue of
three over 3.7 million million dollars
this revenue from a two-year
supplemental property tax money in the
experiment June 30th of 2023. the Board
of Trustees approved the ballot measure
of 4.7 million dollars for the May 16
2023 election with the failure of the
levy the Florida trophies provide a
direction on May 17th of the regular
scheduled board meeting board meeting
number 423 key is a portion of fund
balance in the remaining at 3 are the
dollars to balance the budget based upon
the identified expenditure needs
additional guidance was provided to
decrease expenditures to support a
percentage of co-curricular
extracurricular activities finalization
of the funding for co-curricular and
extracurricular activities is still in
the decision-making process
by Bill Revenue
the Esther packages chairs certified and
arpa contributed significantly to the
district's financial position
these one-time Federal covet relief as
their funds equated to over 4.2 million
dollars for our district which will
expire on September 30th of 2024. these
monies were a purpose for expenditures
of the outline does allow the use of the
funds defined by the federal government
additionally these one-time federal
dollars have allowed our district to
increase our reserves in the upcoming
fiscal year these federal funds will be
exhausted in an effort to meet the
current budget Gap it is critical but if
emphasis be placed on the fact that
these one-time federal funds are
remaining 1.8 million dollars are a
one-year-oldly option to balance the
budget
other Revenue
House Bill 292 from the 2023 Idaho
legislative session is additional
ongoing new money to the districts in
the form of tax relief this revenue from
the state for the West Center County
School District totals 422 208 for the
school district facilities fund
the intent of these funds is to reduce
the tax burden of bonds livings and
facilities for the West Farmer County
School District the purpose must use of
this money is to address the Safety and
Security needs I've identified on the
May 2023 ballot measure
expend insurance
the budget is a reflection of the
district's commitment to providing high
quality Education Services while
adhering to a conservative fiscal policy
the Board of Trustees noted that the
highest priority of building this budget
was to ensure a structurally balanced
financial plan and mix of tight labor
market additionally there is financial
pressure due to high inflationary
environments
salary
the Board of Trustees has recognized a
needs to increase the classified salary
Matrix after board work sessions on the
topic the board provided direction to
increase the starting classified wage to
15 an hour this increases approximately
17.5 percent across the classified
salary schedule for the certified
teachers negotiations are actively in
progress across that with an
administrative recommendation of a 10
increase to the bank the 10 increase
is an effort to balance or direction to
allow for fitting for a percentage of
co-curricular extracurricular activities
furthermore the balance resulted in a
potential cost
of eight positions through attrition
specifically embedded in the seats K-12
coin item for teacher pay up their
expectations from the legislature that a
district must exclusively spend this
increase on teacher compensation
law negotiations are pending the health
benefit increase is 6.9 percent
for the current benefit package
configuration
purchase Services can supply for
materials the major difference from
current purple purchase Services as well
as supplies and materials is the
supplanting of these funds from the
general fund to sr3 Barbara again it is
imperative to remember at least federal
funds sr3 Orca will be expiring
September 30th of 2024. Additionally the
district is forced to recognize the
increase in cost to base operational
needs in these categories of
expenditures due to the increasing
inflation
capital outlay
and the results of the current Financial
condition Capital outlay without a
minimum included
in this summary one item is a bus
acquisition and critical security
Improvement
Jefferson currently the only debt the
district holds the least purchase
agreements for copy machines
judgments the reissuing
the re-insurance market place has become
extremely challenging over the past five
years with 2023 being the worst so far
both liability and property and
reinsurers are reducing limits and
coverages while significantly increasing
pricing the district is permitted to
levia court talks about what without
building a throughpal this amount is
budgeted at
133 900 for the revenue and expenditure
other notable factors
there is a transfer of three hundred
thousand to the child's nutrition
program to balance the program's
operational deficit the increase cost to
deliver the program coupled with the
decline of the district's frame reduced
lunch percentage necessitates was
transfer this is not unique to the
Westside County School District
this is happening Statewide
in summary to the 2024 budget proposal
presentation I'd like to take an
opportunity to recognize and thank the
following individuals admissions events
for their work in developing the West
Commerce County School District number
2023-2024 budget proposal
former superintendent Johnny Branham in
turn superintendent Idaho principal at
East Lake Elementary School principal
lucky
Crystal River High School principal map
George
former Priest River Junior High School
principal Amber Williams
River Elementary principal Lynn Parker
special performer special service
director Kim Shaner
Child Nutrition director Harry Johnson
former facilities and maintenance
director and eldorf former
Transportation director Daryl Hall
technology director of Roman careers
former president Obama high school dean
of students Chris Taylor film one
trustee
in Margaret Hall known to trustee Vice
chair Susan Brown some free trustee
chair Rutledge
and zone five trustee Harland Martin
thank you
the common fighting Financial factors
provided the basis for stretching the
fiscal year 20024 budget this budget
presentation and document in the
simplified summary the
2023-2024 budget proposal is also
available in detail Excel format
thank you
okay next up is is public comments
um
first off is Katie
Alexander
oh I'm sorry
any questions
not at this time
at the end okay so in case something
else okay and and the comments are
supposed to be on this item on the
budget yeah it's just specific by budget
items or
what the comments are for and will limit
the overall comments for one hour
um
my my concern is the budget as most
people here have relates to
extracurriculars and co-curriculars as
well as maintaining about staff to
operate all of our schools of the way
they currently are attacked in the post
budget there's 116 000 for uh
extracurriculars and co-curriculars
which is 25 of the previous
so I'm
asking or hoping that the trustees will
discuss with the board clerk what are
the funds might be available to get that
shortfall so that we can still have a
driving sports program as well as
co-curriculars for all of our students
so that is something that I hope you
guys will thoroughly research tonight
with Mrs Miss uh baby information that
she has on what funds may be available
for that I do believe the community will
step up if there's easy but if there's
funds available we would like to
continue having those opportunities for
our children
thank you
next up is Sandy Brower
um
I noticed a few things on the budget but
one of them
are the entirety of our contingency
reserves
um I also I thought I heard Stephanie
mentioned how many teachers
um we are down I wanted to know how many
administrators as well
um also I'd like you guys to talk about
our new superintendent's wages I I
thought when I read the code that it
won't get reimbursed until he has a
provisional certification so I'm
wondering how how easy to be paid until
October when that goes in front of um
I know sometimes we ask questions if you
guys ignore us which I'm hoping to chew
down at the end will actually ask you
for us
um I also
wonder about the decrease in the safety
that I noticed on there so are we
decreasing our resource officer because
I have to point out the hypocrisy the
fact that you guys have armed guards to
protect you from the people but you
don't think it's um of money you should
expect to protect our students so I'm
curious about that as well also
um extracurricular I want to touch on
that two board members told the evening
last night about three of you I guess
didn't feel important enough to attend
to discuss on how we can raise money
um so I just I don't know if there's
just no interest from trustee Brown
trusted brothers or trustee reinholden
and I'm just curious how long the new
three board members are going to hold
her to start hostage and I would love to
also I want to commend and acknowledge
that you pay these are worth
determination professionalism and
dedication to our district with a budget
shortfalls and they continue to change
the requests and demands of that reward
I am an awe and their ability to
complete a test the loan requirement
okay next up is Kathy Nash
[Music]
she actually came in
going to border
uh I wanted to discuss
report Stephanie could you pull up the
um the other document that she put on
there on the agenda for
um it's a it's a public comment do you
not have to do that yeah
[Music]
asking because it's pertinent to the
information that we're receiving
so on this
2022-23
are 23-24 budget
and sometimes can read that I can do
that it just that's not um
point of orders
potential management policy seven one
hundred all appropriate statistical and
financial information required by the
court to develop final budget plans
in paragraph two the policy State
following the preliminary planning
and no later than 28 days prior towards
annual meeting the proposed budget will
be available at the public community on
the budget will be held at the public
hearing or at a special meeting held no
later than 14 days after the public
hearing the board will adopt a budget
for the Institute
this
is
presented to the board and public in
time for the meeting it was not well
is there imprinted so I'm going to talk
about the residence
copies of this
fiscal year 24 budget droughts other
than it was an online available to the
public for tonight
I control the meetings
is there an active copying of the fund
balances just compassion for available
with the beginning and ending balances
that can be first
what does the proposed budget 2324
beginning balance include what is
included in the other local Revenue do
you have available the worksheet for the
projected state revenue what is the
current amount of the higher leverage
remaining balance and the leather report
provided there were overspending and
some budget items as well as many items
that had a zero beginning debt budget
balance what would be the
for last year alone the levy item 101
was thirty six thousand so uh
102.22
103 was fifty thousand 104 was 404 with
a total of 110
393 dollars and three cents which means
that items such as band drama concussion
impact testing curriculum athletic
storage HVAC report pairs at high school
were being spent on other things besides
what they were budgeted for If These
funds had not been developed or
succeeded on unmeasured items over the
years how much more funds would be
available to cover the sports
extracurricular activities as well as
the maintenance and repairs that were
never done but allocated with eleven
dollars expenditures
what salary schedule was used for the
budget the proposed budget salaries and
benefits have they been approved yet if
not why is it used also if there's
longevity stipends included added to
this calculation are the supporting
documents available for insurance and
judgment where did this calculation come
from where are the transfers coming from
and to what which accounts why did the
purchase service respectfully chair this
is well over the two minute time frame
for
this category
my final question is to all the board
members feel like they have all the
information prior to this meeting
a public member as a public member I did
not receive all the information required
to be good for the policy good job thank
you
the
contractors yeah
great
[Music]
you are doing an amazing job
for clarification there is no two
minutes
okay no no
next is Anna Mortensen
I also don't have any questions
um so first of all I know tensions are
high what the budget people are upset
kids are going to have to be made
um and I know Sports is a really hot
topic and a lot of people are probably
going to talk about it so tonight I
wanted to speak about school safety and
our SRO
um we have one currently for five
schools that's
hardly enough and because I was part of
the money that's something that made me
cut so I just want to urge you to really
think about the safety of our students
and if there's things that have to go
that's not something that I would love
to see as I'm very thankful for our law
enforcement and you know that something
that's paid for in conjunction with the
city
so just
the other thing that I would like to say
is I would really like to recognize
stephy's hard work integrity and
dedication to our district she has taken
it upon herself to learn and report to
the board as well as answer all your
questions during this really difficult
time no one wants to be in a position of
proposing Cuts Steffy is taking the time
to create this proposed budget and we
should trust in her expertise in
guidance in this matter thank you
Stephanie thank you
okay next is Kylie heifer
foreign
ER we have former employees
what are you as important going to do to
get more employees in I mean we're right
across we're close to the Washington
border and they have a lot higher wages
so what proposed things are you going to
do to retain and keep our staff
especially with what is being I mean our
schools all over the news right now are
you going to keep staff here
and again I know everybody who's talking
about sports
um
it's very weird to our hearts
um so George said we can't come up with
a fort Polo party okay with taking maybe
a cut in your budget would you care for
our kids
to help make up that fund
to pay for sports
okay
yeah okay to help you know since you
care for our kids in our community
um and again with resignations where
they can be filling the counselor I mean
mental health is a huge part right now
with kids and social media I just want
to make sure that we have counselors to
tell kids to eat it thank you
okay that's all the public comments I
have
um
it wasn't on the it's not enough
okay that wasn't related to the
emergency Declaration was not part of
the budget
okay
I know I know a lot of people feel
helpless they feel powerless for the
shocked by the situation we're all in
I've asked myself okay
I came down to this
play with your kids
redo them
teach him something and help them be
better prepared for tomorrow
just explain to them what is happening
in his room but most importantly have
fun with it
because this isn't Fun
this is an easy fact that it's hard
my dad taught me that anything worth
them is worth working hard for
and our work is just beginning
this crazy training will be derailed and
this community will be much less
if you don't have kids and even if you
do they can teach you a bus driver or a
channel
find a way to get involved in a positive
way this is a call for all hands on deck
we need everybody to get together to
make this one
remember this November any candidate
that is part of the Idaho Freedom
Foundation or ifm that wants to censor
our libraries censor our public voice
dictate our schools and tell us how to
raise our kids isn't where we receive
according to the National Geographic the
first public school in Boston
Massachusetts that is founded April 23rd
that school is still in operation today
public schools have survived
revolutionary war Civil War and World
Wars it will survive this group
and what's the dismantown
but there's just something I would like
you guys know exactly how price of our s
of our school resource officer comes to
you as part of the Sydney Council if you
guys have questions
you don't actually pay the salary of our
school resource officers
our lowest lowest salary employee and
the only people that nine months in the
school so I just wasn't aware if
everyone was aware of that
um so it really is a service to the
school because he goes through custom
Training
and supplementing with another officer
okay thank you
any other comments from the board
um just to sort of
tack on um
trustee Barton and I did meet with the
city the police chief McLean and their
the city manager regarding the contract
for the you know the proposed or a
potential
contract with the district between the
city it would be a one-year contract
because we don't have we can't guarantee
two years I don't know at what point we
bring that forward it's not you know a
finalized contract but as the board
pointed us
um Jesse Barton and myself to go and
meet with them we did meet with them and
we came up with a preliminary contract
with the city I don't know it would be a
question for Steffy to say I mean
there's some questions regarding what
you know some details of what went into
the actual budget number I know we've
had other we've had other meetings
you've crunched other numbers but in
terms of the salaries
um and some of those other line items
what went into them I mean I think you
were using a certain salary schedule it
was based on kind of the conversations
that the board had with you over time
while we were developing that budget so
I guess if you would can you respond to
some of the questions or some of the
points that a Miz Nash brought up that
would be helpful just for the record
please help
me
the question was
um I guess I'll start with in terms of
the the items that you have presented on
the budget and the um now I'm trying to
find the right piece of paper sorry
um there was where do is the SRO part of
the calculation at this time in the
budget
are part of it and not maybe a point of
it
periods are gone in our drug and
complete state
and drug-free schools I enjoy a portion
of that can be used for the SRO
and then Additionally the um
okay thank you
oh so these are so fun
fun 100 and fund uh 101 through 104. so
fun
fun 100 is going to be our well anything
that starts with the one is general fund
specifically funds 100 is what we
typically in Lane those terms refer to
as the general fund because we have fund
101 through 104 which are identified as
Levy dollars so these
this person I'm not sure if you can see
it is specifically attached to
difference of a year
so with that being said we're not going
to see a
be a budget in our Levy account what we
do see
is the fund
I have
our safe and drug-free schools
so our property tax relief is fund 435
so that's going to be towards one of the
watches yeah tell me when I get there
because I can't see it on the screen
if you just throw something yeah though
okay we don't have it I can do that so
so under 435 this is one of the points
that I wanted to make with addressing
things that were itemized on the uh the
Levee resolution or the Levee ballot
there was a safety Capital Improvements
for 366
000 we saw that amount directly tied to
the levy we're using our potentially
proposed using our school district with
the living property tax relief for that
for the transportation bus acquisition
again we see an amount located on the
levy
Levy ballot excuse me and that's going
to be tied in part to that if we scroll
up
I'm going to straighten it okay how far
up oh
scroll up with me and transferred into
I have where we have
those dollars however with fund 435 a
portion not a portion that money needs
to be expensive amount of confidence
we've divided up uh going back to
and the reason I was commenting on that
is I thought that might be a question
since we're talking about things that
were on the Levee ballot uh and
transitions there
um for our Safety and Security that is
going to be a function
here
ATM security is 667 so function so we
started with fun function is 667 maybe
easier for me to search it I'm sorry but
if you look at 667 we're going to see
that SRO officer budgeted
it's weird because you can't see it on
the screen
control F
m
can I learned something yeah
wow thank you thank you
always learning yeah so unfortunately
with sr3 and the remainder could be
potentially covered
actually have it here
so
for our uh SRO uh currently in the
proposed budget a portion of that is
being covered out of
planting the cost to a surgery arpa
which is fund 250 then you can also see
no Cheyenne
oh
667 Sophie
is that the right one I can't see it
from here
not the right one
yeah
okay so this is
this is our 104 Levy fund that would
have been uh the field ballot would have
been here and so I went ahead and one of
the reasons I know that it's a lot of
pages but one of the reasons that I
provided all of the zeros is so that we
can get an accurate look or at least
um a a look at what accounts we've had
in the past and what accounts we're not
using versus using
um in my mind it helped a little bit to
visually be able to see just the
planting from the general fund to sr3 or
from our Levy dollars to after three
Etc so
um
go through again so Stephie just um in
terms of SRO there was that 44 000 we
know that our last expenditure for
um we know that we probably are going to
be up in the 70 000 probably 60
something it was last time it was
um 60 I've got that but it was
it was a little higher 66 8.
because there's some other things
there's in the sensation and things like
that so given the estimate of increased
Fuel and some of those other things
increased meetings and their presence
here for increased meetings over time
they said over time so it's probably
going to be up over 70 to 72 000 with
potential estimate in when we were doing
a conversation with them
um I know that hasn't come to agreement
so if uh Chief uh McLean is out there
it's not a hard thing and the board
hasn't agreed but that was the EST that
was the rough estimate
where we've got forty four thousand so
we are still looking at another
44 909 909 so almost 45 almost 45 so
there's still
is there other places that you're seeing
making up that difference for the SRO in
the current title
that's right um
so potentially we should be able to fund
an SRO
with the proposed budget today
close okay we'll have a short ball
okay what about I know that there were
some concern in terms of
extracurricular
co-curricular there's been a there has
been you know people stating there's
that hundred and sixteen thousand that
has been left over between the two Levy
funds is from what we were talking about
last night that was being shown you know
that we were going through on the work
session last night was in a full meeting
but it was a work session or just a
community meeting it seemed like there
was 116 000 there that might help with
extracurricular code which was which was
I'm sorry to interrupt trustee well it
actually was the 25 percent that we
wanted to put into the budget from the
actual requested 100 on the levy that
did not pass
so that's what that 116 was it was a
it's a proposed amount
so is that
um how is that reflected in this budget
at this time or how is it
go up to
fund to 100.
it's 100.
do you want me to scroll up
for it is going to be currently placed
in excitement
um that was my understanding of the
board Direction and then the 3D series
of board meetings
thank you
to type 116 comma
okay well
this question is
no and I'm I'm also
correction I'm also I'm also interested
where it falls so I do want to know
where it I do you want to know where it
is okay thanks
all right so and we know
um
at this point I mean we were I will be
writing up the notes from the meeting at
the flip chart last night
um to provide to the full board but also
make sure they go out to the community
community
um
but we know that there was like I'd have
to pull that one up but
um there is a there is a um
deficit between the 116
000 and of roughly
um
let me get the right paper for that one
I think the total amount for
extracurricular co-curricular was
roughly 400 and something thousand but
then
um so there is a little bit of there's a
shortfall there at this point
um I don't know if we can look
all right
if it makes anybody feel any better back
East where I grew up in Vermont they do
Tuesdays in March they do budget
hearings and they last well into the wee
mornings
and so if this you know I know that we
don't have everything but I think we
should be looking at this and making
sure all our questions are answered or
answered you know questions are answered
and
um it's if they take it seriously
developing the budget
and it's live it's a it's a mess when
they do it
okay so did you have that number
yeah but that and then what we were
talking about lastly
I believe
oh oh yeah it's yeah I thought she was
asking the portion I understood
yeah and that's what I've got
for here could you say that again
and we were last night I think we would
like to we would like to hold another
work session
um on July 5th from 7 to 9 regarding
kind of the follow-up conversation about
um the shortfalls of the budget so
trying to figure out now what our
shortfalls might look like I know that
there are community members who are very
interested you know we brainstorm some
of those ideas how we could deal with it
one of them also being looking at this
budget and seeing if there were ways to
fill the gap
yeah
okay so it's Steffy for that shortfall
and just say roughly what are we looking
to look at 3 300 308 000 are there
places that we might find that shortfall
and when we broke that down for
co-curricular extracurricular we were
looking at transportation we were
looking at academa we were not only
looking at sports but we were looking at
band music some of those other things to
make it holistic uh you know make sure
that we were trying to do a holistic
approach
um to make sure the kids don't it's not
reading writing an arithmetic but this
is very important to their brains as
well and to the community
and also how to keep those facilities
open so we do have a shortfall that may
also take into account other things
that's not in that shortfall on the levy
that we might have to consider looking
at
so is there any other place that that
I guess in terms of salary I'm going to
jump for a second but I guess my first
question is is there any other place
that we might get some funds to
complement that 116 000 for the
co-curricular X curricular
so it would be my humble recommendation
that the board consider a separate and
distinct Amendment budget process for
the changes currently being proposed
thank you
okay
let the board consider a separate and
distinct amended budget process
can you elaborate on that
I mean amended budget process
I apologize I I heard the question but
elaborate on the amended budget process
or elaborate on my humble recommendation
to go
that direction
my question
it couldn't understand what you're
saying oh I apologize
um maybe if you were able to explain it
so it's on the record because that
question was out there is it possible to
go ahead and put it on the record so
everyone can hear it
oh yeah
yes I think Marley was just recommending
if you could ask
superintendent Church what uh
to clarify what
Marty or they were saying about the
amendment project and what was the
response it's well my understanding of
what if I understand Stephanie correctly
what she's suggesting is that there's an
approval on the budget as as amen and
there's an adjustment or a vision of the
budget process later that's
with the direction of superintendent
erst okay and then I think the other
question that was brought up is um the
salary schedule that was used to
determine the salary expense expenditure
portion of the budget
and I think it
just I'll let you go but I think it's
been posted we've gone through it
several times and I think it's been part
of several of our meetings but go
thank you
what part do you believe
um would you explain how the salaries
are determined and what schedule you
used and at what point did we
potentially see it or see it several
times
so the the board provided Direction in
uh the series of board work sessions on
what their
factors in playing into the salary
Matrix I took those factors uh and and
calculated uh
I calculated these numbers using those
factors so the salary matrixes or salary
schedules are not
I guess I I'm trustee Hall you said that
they were posted
well I think as part of our work session
I think you included them in some of
those materials that we received at some
point in time so it's the draft ones
they weren't the final but those that
you probably use you you got estimates
from someone maybe I'm understanding the
question better now I apologize so those
salary matrixes or salary schedules are
not yet approved the factors were used
in making these calculations that you
see before you in the proposed budget
that I think you're answering if I made
um it was the classified what the board
of director was starting that classified
salary schedule of fifteen dollars
at the same time we all have copies from
our budget notebook correct so the
salary schedule Matrix for the
classified
um the the reason that there was a draft
presented to the board is to give a
visual of that 15 and then what that
would do uh to the rest of the numbers
in order to provide that that 17.5
percent
so again
um absolutely was used it's not approved
by the Board of Trustees yet uh but that
factor was okay and I guess it's abused
yes
you're paying increases were refunded by
the increases from the state
and then also using the Esther funds to
complete the whole schedule and as far
as the salaries and benefits for the
staff that we have so for example
I mean no go ahead you can jump in too
so if we go back to I believe it was one
of the most recent board work sessions I
had presented the board the salary-based
apportionment worksheet which is
available for public inspection I'm
happy to provide that
um and on that worksheet you would see
that total allocation as as the total
allocation as budgeted or as anticipated
based upon those support units and so in
terms of Simply answering your question
no the the not all of those increases
were supported with the general fund or
the state revenue
and then the other component to this I
mean this is in some ways what we have
not gone through and finalized so is the
negotiations agreement with a certified
and the
um the
meet and confer or the classified
um we haven't come to an agreement on
what the final numbers will look like on
the negotiation agreement with the
certified staff
so that also plays into I think
um you know that just note that that's
what we're doing Keith and I are doing
chair Rutledge and I are in that process
and hopefully there's tentatively a
negotiations committee meeting next July
5th from five to seven
um so
um but that's also taken into account
right now this is the board Direction on
this budget we still have to do the
negotiations to finalize those
agreements and hopefully we can get
everything lined up
so
I mean
Steffy what is the next I mean Kathy
Nash Miss Nash had several
I want to say she made some allegations
regarding the the Levee mounts the Levee
Levy accounts and I she was saying that
they were misrep they were misspent it
sounds like I know that you've been
tracking these very closely can you
address that and can you address that
for me briefly
uh what parts would you like to meet the
the ones regarding the Levee I think she
made the statement that she thought that
the 101 through 104 there were monies
spent that weren't spent to where they
were designated
um that they were they weren't expended
expended as they were
um specified on the left on the levy
okay and you have I mean we have copies
of that and I don't know that's also
online as well if not if I'm not
mistaken under our finance department
our Finance on the website
thank you
so um what
benefits are said as you said have we
seen the increases from the do we have
we seen our insurance increases for
benefits at this point in time are we
expect
Ed in my presentation okay
in advice uh increase yeah there's six
point nine percent but that that's
taking the new that's the new one and
that's being reflected okay
thank you
regarding the lobby hours
in Miss Nash is what what evidence are
you looking for may approach
so that's that right there
I just want to talk about evidence
you're looking for providing information
oh if trustee Brown has something that
does the board has passed out
this was actually given to everybody
this is just my stuff I've collected
over the
last few months
correct
point of order
so you asked a question
Okay so
um
all right
any other any other questions are we
still clearing this up
thank you
um
you might if I heard you correctly I
thought you said that there's a 10
increase in the base for salaries if
that correct
first certified yeah so can you do you
have it broken out by
um for each animal point of increase
what that value of the dollar value is
on that and at what point reach a point
where it's no longer fully supported by
increase in state general fund and it
turns into other channel for the support
from the district do we know kind of
where that where that point is so I
currently do not have a document that
would demonstrate that what I do have is
a scattergram of the
10 increase to the base that total
amount and then in comparison to the
budgeted salary based apportionment so
that's what I've been doing but I'd be
happy to provide that hey I always
appreciate that I think it'd be helpful
at least
where things have to move you kind of
see where where we're moving from State
support into local Revenue support and
kind of make a better decision that way
to see if it's because being able to
make a cost benefit analysis about
whether or not whether resources should
stay there or if you go someplace or if
there's some different routes that can
take place
okay
and I guess the other question is have
we done any sort of
um cost comparison between
um
the parent insurance provider and going
holding on to the states
but the intention when the legislature
passed two years ago the health
insurance
law was to push districts into that pool
have we looked at what the cost of
impacts would be if if the District
Court of fully integrate into the into
the state school rather than maintaining
its own pool
yes we have super internet Durst and I
would be happy to provide those
documents I haven't looked at them in a
little bit thank you
okay any other questions
yeah
but in this budget the series
foreclosures I asked about two weeks ago
first David says I asked you for uh
the cuts that were had to be made to
make this happen
I never got it so I don't know never got
the lit you were going to make me a
detailed list as to what cuts were made
so no Cuts have been made and I thought
that in the conversation that I had made
that clear that no Cuts had been made
there's a proposed of position cuts
through attrition so that nothing has
been decided at this point in time that
is for the board to decide
and sorry and I thought that that that's
the conversation that we had so I
apologize
I do apologize
so just
um
just for clarification purposes or
Steffi at this point are we dipping into
our fund balance at this point
yes how much is that I know you probably
said that but just to understand how
much are we dipping in and is anything
left after we dip into it I yes so the
fun balance uh usage can be seen on the
budget notice I was just trying to pull
that up as I was
so that is how much
uh
that the board plans to use uh
to support the budget we are well within
the parameters of uh
keeping enough in order to
safely incur the cost of any sort of
accident or safety issue
and I can provide a more detailed report
for that as well
okay and that was the 274 450 is that
where you highlighted It's Beginning
balance correct it's what you're looking
at okay and then just for clarification
or just a reminder to us all I mean the
reason we can have basically
can make things work for the most part
is that we've got those Esser funds that
we were going to use for facilities
improvements and we're using we've made
the decision to move those to focus on
staff keeping us as whole as we can with
the schools we've got
but we we still are going to have we're
going to have to look at this next year
this is this is a this is a Band-Aid for
this year
or earlier or earlier
yeah we should be looking at it earlier
even than that so
but I just I I just want to remind us
that this is we're in this position
right now because we do have the Esser
funds and they even as much as we
criticize people criticize them they are
actually helping us to keep us whole at
this point in time as whole as we can be
um trustee Barton stepped away very
briefly
I guess I'd be curious of next steps of
I mean we get um we need to I guess we
haven't shut it for public comment I
mean we're still in sort of public
comment section but we have no uh
everyone spoke yeah so we need to
probably shut that
out of paper
set it down on them without the hallway
and she got to make a public comments so
I think Nikki if she would like to make
a public comment she was in the hallway
or Cali or anybody that is in the
hallway who didn't give a couple of
paper because her wasn't that sure
okay fair enough do you want me to see
if anything yes
yes and just the budget
okay yeah
that class size is most likely going to
the Greece and that's going to greatly
affect the success of our students and
there's been a lot of talk about test
scores of us being low and having also a
high percentage of indeed students in
our district so something to consider
when cutting positions in those higher
class sizes is it really could affect
our students negatively
um
foreign
budget process earlier in the year
because
lines around
hearing a comment that from Christy
Reynolds it'd be nice to start reading
the January was kind of disturbing me
you know supposedly that was probably
going to happen
and then another comment that I would
add is that uh in this Nash was in here
she went to the back there
deluded that trustee Brown has
information that she's asking about them
asking about allegations of new day for
well over a year
I think when it comes to the budgetary
stuff Christy Brown if he would share
what you believe you know or allegations
you think you have we would all
appreciate that get that get that out
get it done get it over with that people
is what I'm talking about be nice thank
you thank you thank you
foreign
[Music]
um
this community is my world of my life I
do not want it tore apart I moved here
chose to move back here with my children
to be a part of this great Community
um
when we're looking at
the budget it seems pretty common sense
to me to maybe just
pre-run eleven
that we're struggling struggling so so
bad would it really hurt to be around
money have we considered that maybe
it's supposed to pay
it would help keep our schools open it
would help keep our Sports going and
help our drama
we wouldn't have lost the teachers if
we've already lost
have you had the money have you gotten
the teachers back
I would really be considerate peace
thank you
any other comments
okay
you're welcome Susie
a question on I had sent you an email
earlier in the day and I didn't get a
chance to look back to see if you
replied okay yeah so of the 11
were any of those of the eight that the
team had looked at to eliminate
is
through attrition and so that would be
the recommendation and then the
administrators
um
worked to
staff the buildings
um
based on the the numbers of the
allocations that we were going to have
for this next year so they they've
worked to do that for each of the grade
levels and since that time we've had so
many I sent you what I sent you was this
document that
um yeah okay and so it has a list of all
of the people that have we have formal
resignations so
by that and it lists out the names and
some of them were listed of the proposed
ones but
we we aren't able to fund our two
instructional coaches anymore they run
the S dollars that were the two-year
contracts Emily had a counselor as well
that we don't have
so those three positions
and
then others is that the high school
counselor no no
oh yeah the the Esser dollars paid there
were two years there were one-year
contracts for two years to help with
learning loss and support students and
so the ending of that funding has
happened this year
and so those were decisions and that we
know that
that through people retiring and
because we had six in a retired I
believe
five or six yeah not retiring we had two
retirees this year
and then others are resignations they're
getting hired elsewhere okay principal
lucky how many resignations have we
gotten so far
we have 22 certified resignations
certified teachers we have five
classified staff we have two
administrative positions and then we
have two departments
thank you
foreign
just quick question Susie the the
instructional coaches
um the two and the one do you have a
number on how a rough estimate about how
much those costs the district
do you know offhand what do we I'm just
questioning what looking at
um
by the time you had benefits the benefit
package and their salary because oh
higher she says higher so because
they're experience
and I guess
our instructions
and we could see the results of having
spent that money correct in the
elementary school I know
[Music]
um
so I mean that's something if a levy
were to a small Levy were to be run and
I know that it's very tight to meet the
August deadline
and then we've got so many shortages in
other areas I mean we've got so many
places that we've got shortages but
that may be something to look at in the
future is to replenish look at that
again because they were there was a
value to that those dollars spent
all right I need a motion to approve the
2023-2024 budget
um a chair Rutledge learning from last
year you'll need to officially close the
budget hearing component and then bring
the next one to the table
so
is this the piece that needs to go into
the newspaper
or is that piece we've already done
that's the piece we've already done I
just wanted to clarify thank you
okay
um
so we close the details okay now I I
will declare that the public comment
portion of this is closed
um I need a motion to approve the
2023-2024 budget
I'll make a motion to do so okay I have
a motion from trustee Hall to approve
the 20 23 2024 budget do I have a second
I'll second that okay
um trustee Barton makes it most or
seconds approval of the 2023-2024 budget
all those in favor say aye
aye aye those opposed
name
me
you know what further clarification
on cash flows account receivable
accounts payable and available cash and
and a review by uh superintendent
um Durst and we can set up a meeting for
early next week
and then we can approve it
you guys are so correct
this is disgusting
so I need a clarification from Steffy
how does she Steffy how can you deal
with the state and the June 30th um you
need to
to
um
submit something what does that do to
the district if we don't submit it on
June 30th I think we have a seems like
we had a 10-day grace period a little
bit if I recall correctly
uh I would be deferring that question to
superintendent Durst
did they ask
Ed foreign
it's in code that you have to submitted
by the Bible at first but there's no
enforcement mechanism if that doesn't
happen so the state has the state has
the district has the right to continue
to operate without a budget but it
should definitely does
expeditiously as possible
okay and I I do want to for the record
it does seem like there was a little bit
of communications between at least two
of you in terms of the information
so it may be three of you that I that
was not privy to I know Ms Nash
presented the information
um but I do have concerns that there may
have been some collusion or
conversations even though it might be
one to one and one to the other if
there's three-way conversation between
you that is a violation of open meeting
laws if that did take place
okay I need a motion to adjourn
I make a motion Twitter okay I have
emotions a second okay meeting adjourned
to figure this out so you're gonna have
to hit the ground running dude because
you've got no time to Google or budget
and figure stuff out because we need to
get this stuff done so our kids can go
to school when the school year starts
so what happens
when your contract with their jobs I
mean we have a teacher that's waiting to
hear that she's gonna
that's fine
going through
and when can we hire these 20
years
we can't move forward
so um
it's the meetings closed but I think we
should have in times I've decided when
we would meet next week
and Monday
it was like for me
right so that's how that goes it's going
to have a real big impact
so it seems premature to do anything
before that negotiation is finalized for
that negotiating agreement is going to
happen
random applications everywhere else in
the budget and if you if you feel like
that we should do so I mean I'm happy to
do something sooner and it feels better
but I just think that's because that's
such a big thing I think that's such a
big piece of the budget having to know
how much more is going to go into the
base versus the more we currently are I
think that decision needs to be
basketball special session again to
continue the conversation and I watched
that one because I wasn't able to be
there but I watched it online
we're not we're looking at
yeah
how do they make it together right if
it's going to do anything today
obviously we'd have to do a fight too
long and I guess
what I'm saying is I don't want a box in
you guys has negotiations with the
association
because then there's
the negotiations it's moved I mean that
would be negotiating and bad things
because it's hard to work it back
together
um
[Music]
thank you
no and it's interesting the Idaho
Freedom Foundation when I found that
blog on site on Twitter 2020 they were
criticizing the there's Boston not
enforcing open meeting law violations
and so and it said that it should be a
public meetings should be able to be
people should be able to intend in
person they should be that way if we
didn't stream and we shouldn't have
people out there because we are in some
ways
yes but we do need to be transparent if
we're going to be
transparents
after your negotiated
what do you think must be called
206. that's what I was thinking yeah
let's do the six that way you guys have
time to do your your dream we can note
we can notice that we're going to have
for the budget discussions we can also
have a company we can also tell us a
committee report
negotiation does that work for all of
you and that way you guys can say what
what you've learned and then we can use
that to help inform the position okay
yeah does that work
can we have it as large you said a
larger space would be good yeah it looks
good in high school
cafeteria seem to work well yeah
is this the patient is this a
continuation of budget yeah so I think
what we do is it's two piece there's the
there's the stuff committee report on
the negotiations with the association
which will have completed the night
before and then you guys can go to an
executive session around that issue do
you want to go
right and then the second piece would be
to then use that to have a discussion in
public around what that negotiating
agreement is going to look like and
ratify that and then that that
negotiated agreement will then inform
the final piece of the of the budget
if the people who are on multiple
Channel but um if it's that maybe if you
have a meeting from seven to nine as it
continued well it's probably better here
to have the negotiations here we'll just
have to run up there to the other
meeting but it would be um well the
sixth you don't have them I thought yeah
but I'm thinking that probably should
back
seven and we get you know they
I do work
so and then seven to nine and then on
the six we could maybe back it up I
think the board wants to back it up we
six o'clock allows other people
excuse me you adjourn this meeting you
can't all be sitting here it's a
violation right you cannot be sitting
here and taking comments you can't be
sitting here doing anything it's a
violation and you can bet I'm going to
report it
okay
[Music]
if you want to chat with me yeah
I'm making a big old Waterhouse